PROCESS UNDERTAKEN 
When using the Open Street Map, I learned that the principle of collective mapping is crucial before starting to work with OpenStreetMap. It is important to know how each contribution made to open street mapping helps form an open access map of our earth.  I joined a free account on OpenStreetMap and then studied all the basics using the Learn Open Street Map tutorials.  The tutorial helped me to understand the key elements, such as nodes, how to edit the maps, and how to add the tools to the maps.
After retaining enough information, I chose a region for mapping, which was Passage West, my old home area. I was familiar with the location, which allowed me to see what was wrong and what could be improved. Then I used the ID Editor, which is a mapping application that works in any modern web browser. I started improving and adding my own touches to the current state of tiles on the map. I then added buildings, lakes, parks, hospitals, schools, and churches, changed the names of the roads, and added points of interest such as shops. To do this effectively, I improved at least five tiles. In addition, I used the tool called Map Swipe. It required looking at the satellite picture and determining if there were some buildings or streets not yet mapped by OpenStreetMap. 
Another problem I faced during the editing process included identifying images that were hidden by shadows or other issues, thereby causing confusion as far as distinguishing natural features from man made ones, such as buildings. I managed to tackle this problem by cross-checking and trying different methods that could help me figure out this issue. It was solved by using the guidelines provided in the OpenStreetMap’s tutorial. In general, the task was quite challenging and needed some time to become proficient at it.

MY CONTRIBUTIONS

There are lots of obstacles when working with OpenStreetMap. The first challenge was that the most important result of my activity within the platform was the creation of an opportunity to see and explore local regions, thanks to their mapping. The mentioned contribution is extremely important since the provided results will be useful not only for residents but also for visitors and providers too.
The importance of using OpenStreetMap maps under certain circumstances becomes even higher. When we explain the meaning of humanitarian cases, mapping becomes important. For example, when there is a necessity to save victims of some natural disaster or accident, updated maps become crucial. With this feature, rescuers can travel easily through the area and search for the required infrastructure to perform their task. Even a minor contribution to map making, for example, mapping one object, may save somebody's life. 
The open street map is a good resource when it comes to researching, planning, and trying to understand the rural area. Access to dependable geo data makes decisions possible in different spheres, including healthcare, transportation, and the environment. For example, the mapping of medical facilities and road networks will help in identifying the gap in healthcare provision, particularly in rural areas.
In terms of its use in Digital Humanities, OpenStreetMap is a great example of how digital tools can be used for facilitating open knowledge. Other forms of mapping tools, which are usually operated by the government, OpenStreetMap allows a chance to anyone who wants to engage. However, public contributed data is associated with some limitations too. The quality of mapping depends on the knowledge and active involvement of the residents or anyone in general. There might be some spots that will not get enough mapping due to various reasons like absence of resources and internet connectivity in developing countries. However, the joint approach of OpenStreetMap ensures that any errors that could be made by one contributor are corrected by others.
All in all, the contribution I have made might not seem important, but it is done in a much larger context where it will help people navigate and conduct research, among other things.
WHAT I LEARNT
This assignment helped me gain not only technical skills but also a better understanding of concepts related to them. Practically speaking, I learned how to use certain mapping technologies like iD Editor and Map Swipe and understand how geographic information is generated, organized, and used. 
Apart from technical knowledge, I managed to develop an appreciation of what geographical information means for people in their daily lives.  In this assignment, I used to take digital maps for granted, neglecting the work done by professionals and volunteers for their creation and maintenance.
The assignment also provided me with some problem solving skills, especially in cases when the satellite imagery was unclear and new for me or when mapping principles were unfamiliar to me. Searching through relevant resources was essential in addressing problems of this kind. This project helped me become more familiar with how technology and the involvement of the community can benefit the latter.
APPLICATIONS AND FUTURE POTENTIAL
All the lessons obtained by going through the mapping process will come in handy in a number of cases in the future. These skills will certainly prove useful in multiple ways in the future. The exercise, which uses maps like OpenStreetMap, will help in gaining a better understanding of geographical information, teamwork online, and how important accurate information is when depicting reality. It is increasingly becoming more necessary to learn how to make use of these skills in the current age of computer science. 
The other area where geographical data can be used is in scientific research. It is possible to analyse how the land use pattern and infrastructural development have been evolving in various places, and this would be beneficial for those engaged in conducting scientific studies that pertain to geography, environment, society, or urban planning. As a result, working with geographical data would help understand the structure of space.
Another area where geographical data can be employed is planning and development. The improvement of transport connections and structural development will be aided by using mapping data. In addition, publicly contributed mapping helps in generating digital maps for specific areas, especially if there is no updated official data available or it is too unclear. In this situation, the significance of the participation of the local population in the establishment of reliable databases cannot be overemphasized.
In conclusion, mapping is an essential skill if someone wishes to begin a career path in technology. Awareness gained during work with publicly contributed mapping software, such as ID Editor and Map Swipe, would help analyse location intelligence and digital maps.
